Add initial document for generated schemas (#402)
mozilla/firefox-data-docs: src/concepts/pipeline/schemas.md

click ingestion "https://mozilla.github.io/gcp-ingestion/ingestion-beam/"
click airflow "https://github.com/mozilla/telemetry-airflow"

%% Edges
master --> |git clone| generator
transpiler --> |used by| generator
probe-info --> |used by| generator
generator --> |scheduled by| airflow
airflow --> |run nightly| schemas

schemas --> |defines table| bigquery
schemas --> |defines is valid| ingestion
schemas --> |defines normalization| ingestion
ingestion --> |inserts into| bigquery
```

**Figure**: _An overview of generated schemas. Click on a node to navigate to the relevant
repository or documentation._

## Schema Repository

```mermaid
graph LR

subgraph mozilla-pipeline-schemas
  subgraph origin/master
    templates -->|cmake| schemas
  end

  subgraph origin/generated-schemas
    schemas -->|mozilla-schema-generator| artifact(schemas)
  end
end
```

**Figure**: _Template schemas are built locally to generate static JSON Schema. On a regular basis,
the Mozilla Schema Generator is run to generate BigQuery schemas._

Refer to [Sending a Custom Ping](../../cookbooks/new_pings.md) for an in-depth guide for adding new
schemas to the repository.

> ### Mozilla Schema Generator

Reviewer: A few key points here:
- JSON schemas are generated and used by the transpiler for BQ schema generation, but _not_ for validation
- Schema aliases are generated here
- A few fields in the environment are altered as well

### Airflow

## Data Ingestion

### Validation

> Data that fails validation is sent to the `payload_bytes_error` table. Each row contains

Author: The monitoring views are inaccessible at the moment, too, if I'm recalling the authorized view situation correctly.

> Data that fails validation is sent to the `payload_bytes_error` table. Each row contains

Reviewer 2: Per discussion last week, we will be removing the `ip` field and making the error table user-accessible.

> Data that fails validation is sent to the `payload_bytes_error` table. Each row contains

Author: Monitoring views can be added later, if they make sense in this section.

not be specified in the schema, and instead placed into a specially constructed column named
`additional_properties`.

#### Column Name Normalization

The reference [Python
implementation](https://github.com/acmiyaguchi/test-casing/blob/master/src/main.py) of the snake
casing algorithm been implemented in the decoder and transpiler using [a shared
test-suite](https://github.com/acmiyaguchi/test-casing/tree/master/test-cases). To illustrate the
transformation, consider the [`a11y.theme` keyed
scalar](https://probes.telemetry.mozilla.org/?view=detail&probeId=scalar%2Fa11y.theme) in the [main
ping](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/toolkit/components/telemetry/data/main-ping.html). In
the JSON document, as seen in `about:telemetry`, it is accessed as follows:

```python
# Python/Javascript syntax
ping["payload"]["processes"]["parent"]["keyedScalars"]["a11y.theme"]
```

The decoder will normalize the path with snake casing in BigQuery:

```sql
SELECT
  payload.processes.parent.keyed_scalars.a11y_theme
FROM `moz-fx-data-shared-prod`.telemetry.main
WHERE date(submission_timestamp) = date_sub(current_date, interval 1 day)
LIMIT 1
```

> #### Data Normalization

Author: We are altering the data by introducing pseudo-maps, anonymous tuples, and their ilk. But I see what you mean, we're modifying the structure (and types) of the data to match the schema, as opposed to modifying their contents.

> #### Data Normalization

Author: I chose `Data Structure Normalization`, since this is a structural transformation.

# Generated Schemas

## Overview

Schemas describe the structure of ingested data. They are used in the pipeline to validate the types
and values of data, or to define a table schema in a data store. We use a repository of JSON Schemas
to sort incoming data into [`decoded` and `error`
datasets](../../cookbooks/bigquery.md#projects-with-bigquery-datasets). We also generate BigQuery
table schemas nightly from the JSON Schemas.

> This section is intended for those who want modify the process of generating and applying schemas

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section is intended for those who want to modify the process of generating and applying schemas
```

WHERE
  submission_timestamp > TIMESTAMP_SUB(current_timestamp, INTERVAL 1 hour)
  AND exception_class = 'org.everit.json.schema.ValidationException'
LIMIT 5
```

Column | Example Value | Notes
-|-|-
`document_namespace` | telemetry |
`document_type` | main |
`document_version` | null | The version in the `telemetry` namespace is generated after validation
`error_message` | `org.everit.json.schema.ValidationException: #/environment/system/os/version: #: no subschema matched out of the total 1 subschemas`
`error_type` | `ParsePayload` | The `ParsePayload` type is associated with schema validation or corrupt data
`exception_class` | `org.everit.json.schema.ValidationException `| Java [JSON Schema Validator](https://github.com/everit-org/json-schema) library
`job_name` | `decoder-0-0121192636-9c56ac6a` | Name of the Dataflow job that can be used to determine the version of the schema artifact

### Decoding

The BigQuery schemas are used to normalize relevant payload data and determine additional
properties. Normalization involves renaming field names and transforming certain types of data.
Snake casing is employed across all schemas, which ensures that nested structures can always be

> accessed using the dot operator. Some data must be transformed before insertion, such as map-types

Reviewer 2: I don't see how snake casing relates to being able to use the dot operator for field access. Our snake casing implementation does also handle transforming special characters to underscore, but perhaps that should be called out separately.

(a.k.a. dictionaries in Python), due to limitations in BigQuery data representation. Other data may
not be specified in the schema, and instead placed into a specially constructed column named
`additional_properties`.

#### Column Name Normalization

The reference [Python
implementation](https://github.com/acmiyaguchi/test-casing/blob/master/src/main.py) of the snake

> casing algorithm been implemented in the decoder and transpiler using [a shared

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
casing algorithm is ensured to be compatible with the implementations in the decoder and transpiler using [a shared
```
